# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

##Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class? -->
    A1. In the console.rb file to test the constructor. e.g property1 line 6

##Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
    A2. In the property.rb file - line 18 sql = "INSERT INTO ...."

##Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?
    A3. line 4 - delete_all
        lines 13 & 22 - save
        lines 33 - delete

##Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
    A4. It takes the value from the 'source of truth' i.e. the database. The value is unknown when instantiated.

##Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
A5. In the save method. An instance variable is created to store the value of the id it then
sets the id in the constructor.
Hmmm, but maybe in the RETURNING part of save - in class we were shown to use RETURNING * , here it
    states RETURNING id

##Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
    A6. it will check if the id value returned in save is present and runs, if the 'if' clause not there the value given is 0.

##Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
    A7. The instance methods perform actions on individual objects.
        The methods which perform actions on all instances of the class in the db are defined
        as class methods.         

##Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
    A8.
      It's accessed  by calling the local variable @id

##Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
    A9. Mainly it's used to sanitize the data injected by the user and good practice to include in all CRUD methods.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

##Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
    A10. the id and full address respectively

##Q11. What are their return values?
    A11. The object instance variable values as a hash.
